Q-Install NodeJs in ubuntu ?
Ans:-The following steps includes the installation of NodeJs:
    1.Update your package list: sudo apt update
    2.Install Node.js: sudo apt install nodejs
    3.Install npm (Node Package Manager): sudo apt install npm
    4.Verify the installation: node -v, npm -v
Q-What is an .env file in NodeJs ?
Ans:-A .env file is a configuration file that stores environment variables for a project. It's a simple text file that contains key-value pairs, where each line represents a variable and its value, separated by an equals sign (=). They are often used to keep sensitive data like API keys, database credentials, and configuration settings separate from the source code, making it easier to manage and secure these values.These variable can be access in other file using require("dotenv").config().
Q-What is the use of .env file ?
Ans:-In Node.js, a .env file is used to store environment variables, which are configuration settings and sensitive information (like API keys, database credentials, etc.). This practice keeps these values separate from the source code, enhances security and simplifies configuration management. The dotenv package is commonly used to load these variables into process.env in our application.
Q-Example of .env file ?
Ans:-Create a .env file in the root directory of your project. This file will contain key-value pairs of your environment variables.
    Example .env file:
     # PORT NO
     PORT=3000
     # Database Connection url
     DATABASE_URL="http://localhost:mongodb://localhost:27017"
     # API keys
     API_KEY=yourapikeyhere
     SECRET_KEY=yoursecretkeyhere
 Q-How to run javascript file using NodeJs ?
 Ans:-1.Create a JavaScript file with  code. For example, create a file named index.js with the following content.
      2.Navigate to the directory where your JavaScript file is located using the terminal or command prompt.
      3.Use the node command followed by the file name to execute the file. In this example, you would run: node index.js


